# **Task : Bash Scripting**

## **Objective:**

Write a Bash Script to read the contents of a protected file.

**Steps:**

* Open the **TryHackMe** **Room** and connect to the target machine via SSH, as instructed in the Room description and course video.

| Room Link: [https://tryhackme.com/jr/tutedude-cybersec](https://tryhackme.com/jr/tutedude-cybersec) |
| :---- |

* Answer the Following question(s) in the TryHackMe Room.  
  * Use any Text Editor and edit the content of the read\_secret.sh. Inside that file, write a script to read the contents of secret.txt. What is inside secret.txt?


* Open read\_secret.sh in any file editor

* Write a **bash script** that will read the content from **secret.txt** and print it on screen inside the **read\_secret.sh.**  
  * Your Script should read the Content of the file, store it in a variable, and then print the value of that variable on the terminal.

* Give appropriate permission to the script and run it to get the content of the secret.xt

* **Screenshot 1**: Submit the screenshot of the answered questions on TryHackMe, and the flags should be visible in the screenshot if any.

* **Screenshot 2**: Print the content of the script, take a screenshot, and submit that

| Submission Guidelines:-  Create ONE main folder. Example folder name: CyberSecurity-Task-(name)-YourName Inside this folder include: One Word document (.docx file)/ PDF file (All screenshots must be inserted inside this document) Convert the folder into ZIP format. Upload the ZIP folder on the submission portal. |
| :---- |

Watch the course videos to know how to use TryHackMe as well as how to use basic Linux commands, file system commands, Linux permissions and bash scripting as well.

**If you have any doubt, you can directly contact the Tutedude mentor.**

